
Main menu

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Donate
Create account
Log in

Personal tools
Contents hide
(Top)
History
Irish Greyhound Care Fund
Racing venues
See also
References
External links
Greyhound Racing Ireland

Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history

Tools
Appearance hide
Text

Small

Standard

Large
Width

Standard

Wide
Color (beta)

Automatic

Light

Dark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Greyhound Racing Ireland

Formerly	Bord na gCon (1958–2020)
Industry	Sporting governing body
Founded	1958
Headquarters	Dock Road, Limerick, Ireland
Website	grireland.ie
Greyhound Racing Ireland (Irish: Rásaíocht Con Éireann,[1] formerly Irish: Bord na gCon) is an Irish semi-state body charged with regulating and promoting Greyhound racing in Ireland.[2][3] The organisation has been active in developing the sport in Ireland since its founding on 11 July 1958.[4]

Greyhound Racing Ireland, formerly the Irish Greyhound Board (IGB), is a commercial semi-state body and reports to the Department of Agriculture, Food and the Marine.[5]

History
The original governing body for Irish Greyhound Racing was established under the Greyhound Industry Act of 1958 with a number of aims. The body was formed to regulate the industry, operate a tote betting system, licence and authorise each stadium, its officials, and its on-course bookmakers, and promote the sport through advertising and prize grants.[2] It became responsible for all tracks in Ireland, with the exception of the Ulster tracks that would remain under the jurisdiction of the Irish Coursing Club.[3][6]

Rásaíocht Con Éireann / Greyhound Racing Ireland report on the results of Northern Irish tracks, of which two remain today Derry Greyhound Stadium and Drumbo Park. The reason for the involvement is because Northern Irish tracks do not come under the jurisdiction of the Greyhound Board of Great Britain (GBGB). However the tracks do not receive funding or licensing from Greyhound Racing Ireland (Irish: Rásaíocht)

In 1960 a new totalisator system was installed at four tracks Harolds Cross, Shelbourne Park, Cork and Limerick, in addition to obtaining Clonmel from the Morris family headed by T.A.Morris the former secretary of the Irish Coursing Club. Des Hanrahan became chairman of Bord na gCon in 1965 (taking over from Dr Paddy Maguire [7]) and actively sought to buy any Irish tracks in danger of being sold to developers.[8] They bought Shelbourne Park in 1968.[9]

Bord na gCon/ Irish Greyhound Board officially changed its name to Rásaíocht Con Éireann/ Greyhound Racing Ireland on 1 October 2020 as part of the implementation of the Greyhound Racing Act 2019.[10] The provisions enacted provide for an expanded Governing Board of nine members as well as laying the foundation for a new traceability system for racing greyhounds; enhanced powers for authorised officers; a more robust and modern regulatory framework and ultimately the updating of racing sanctions to be administered by an independent Control Committee and an Appeal Committee, the members of which will be appointed by the Minister following an open selection process.

Irish Greyhound Care Fund
In August 2019, it was announced that a separate Care Fund dedicated to funding a variety of initiatives for the care and welfare of the greyhound was being established.[11][12][13]

The Greyhound Care Fund is a fund that is dedicated to funding a variety of initiative for the care and welfare of the greyhound and the GRI is targeting the sum of €1 million to be raised for the Greyhound Care Fund in its first year of operation. The fund will accrue from the admissions and restaurant packages, a percentage of tote income and sponsorship. Care Fund arrangements for Shelbourne Park were brought into effect from 21 August 2019 and other stadia came into effect from 1 November 2019.

Racing venues
Greyhound Racing Ireland regulates all of Ireland's greyhound racing venues. There are racing venues in the following locations:[14]

Connacht

Galway, Galway Greyhound Stadium
Leinster

Dublin, Shelbourne Park
Dundalk, Dundalk Stadium
Enniscorthy, Enniscorthy Greyhound Stadium
Kilkenny, Kilkenny Greyhound Stadium
Mullingar, Mullingar Greyhound Stadium
Newbridge, Newbridge Greyhound Stadium


Munster

Clonmel, Clonmel Greyhound Stadium
Cork, Curraheen Park
Limerick, Limerick Greyhound Stadium
Thurles, Thurles Greyhound Stadium
Tralee, Kingdom Greyhound Stadium
Waterford, Kilcohan Park
Youghal, Youghal Greyhound Stadium

See also
Greyhound racing in Ireland
Greyhound racing in the United Kingdom
Horse Racing Ireland
State-sponsored bodies of the Republic of Ireland
References
 "Greyhound Racing Act 2019". Irish Statute Book. Retrieved 14 September 2020.
 "Bord na gCon". Sport Agencies. Department of Arts, Sports and Tourism. Archived from the original on 14 April 2008. Retrieved 17 July 2008.
 Thompson, Laura (2003). The dogs: a personal history of greyhound racing. London: Old Castle. p. 18. ISBN 1843440164. OCLC 62223569.
 "Remember When - July". Greyhound Star. 15 July 2018.
 "2014 Annual Report" (PDF). Greyhound Racing Ireland.
 "Bord na gCon". Sport Agencies. Department of Arts, Sports and Tourism. Archived from the original on 14 April 2008. Retrieved 17 July 2008.
 "Monthly Greyhound Star (Remember When 1965) September edition". Greyhound Star.
 Comyn, John. 50 Years of Greyhound Racing in Ireland. Aherlow Publishers Ltd.
 "Monthly Greyhound Star (Remember When 1968) January edition". Greyhound Star.
 "Results". Greyhound Racing Ireland.
 "Irish Greyhound Care Fund". Greyhound Racing Ireland.
 "Irish Retired Greyhound Trust". Irish Retired Greyhound Trust.
 "Greyhound Racing Act". Irish Statute Book.
 "Home Page - Our Stadiums". Greyhound Racing Ireland. Retrieved 17 July 2008.
External links
Official website
vte
Sports governing bodies in Ireland (IRL)
Categories: State-sponsored bodies of the Republic of IrelandSports governing bodies in the Republic of Ireland1958 establishments in IrelandGreyhound racing in IrelandGreyhound racing organizationsSports organizations established in 1958
This page was last edited on 6 November 2024, at 01:08 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaCode of ConductDevelopersStatisticsCookie statementMobile view
Wikimedia FoundationPowered by MediaWiki
